# ZK Games program
This is a POC program that showcase playing a simple RPS (Rock Paper Scissors) game using our platform

# Key elements

## ZK Games platform

Our platform is the trust layer between players and game clients, it allows for 2 key factors:

1. ZK Proving: It allows both sides prove certain information without revealing secrets to the otherside
2. Public data: Allows all parties to get a wider reach.

Examples:
1. Players can prove their identity (login) without revealing their password to the game client
2. Games that started using game client "A" can be joined by players on game client "B"

## Game client

Game clients (also called `UI`s) are trusted entites that players interact with directly, they can only be added by the platform admin.
Game clients don't have access to players secret directly, rather they verify certain information by verifying the proof that was generated by the players.

# RPS Game flow

RPS (Rock Paper Scissors) game is just a POC to what is possible using our platform.

## Flow

### Player registers

The player must register with a username and password in order to generate a `SECRET`.

That `SECRET` will be used to generate unique hashes that later will be proven to contain specific information.

### Player1 starts RPS game

Player1 generates a __unique hash__ (`HASH`) from his `SECRET`, `GAME_ID` and his RPS choice, for example `PAPER`. 

The game is registered on chain, "locking" the choice of Player1, and waiting for someone to join.

### Player2 joins the game

Player2 joins the game by picking `ROCK`.

Player2 doesn't have to "hide" his choice, because Player1 choice is already locked in and can't be changed.

### Player1 reveal his choice

Player1 must reveal his choice to complete the game.

To reveal his choice, Player1 generates a ZK proof that the locked `HASH` is the winning choice (`PAPER`).

The verification of the proof is done on-chain, if Player1 fails to provide a valid proof, Player2 is declared as the winner.

### Record of the game

When the game completes it is recorded on chain, allowing us to have public statistics per player.

## Benefits

### 1. Public games

When Player1 start a new game, he makes his game "public", this allows him to reach a wider player base, by allowing any game client to "see" this game, and offer thier player base to join it.

### 2. Fairness

Player1 choice is hidden not only from other players, but also from the game client.

* While the game client is controlling the UI that is used by the player, and thus can "see" what Player1 choice is.  
The process of hiding the choice will be done by the platform, which prevents the game client from "revealing" the choice.

### 3. Public game record

The game existence and result is verified and recorded publicly allowing for endless possibilities:

* __Public ELO rating:__ Making the ELO rating public and decentralized allows any entity to use it, even for players the entity "doesn't know".  
For example, players can switch game clients and retain their ELO rating.  
Another good example is tournament organizers can use this ELO rating as a trusted source for matchmaking or gate-keeping.
* __Statistics:__ Key statistics of players can be recorded publicly as a trusted source allowing players to flex their results.

